Alzheimer's disease is a progressive condition
that robs the ability to
remember, think, and reason, affecting the
very essence of a person, their
memories and identity. At first,
the symptoms are subtle. The person
may forget where they left their keys or
recent appointments, but then they become
more severe: difficulty planning,
loss of sense of time and place,
or inability to hold a
conversation. This happens because the
disease gradually damages the
neurons, and the brain begins to
shrink, affecting vital areas.
First the hippocampus, our memory center,
and then the areas of logic and
language. The person may become
confused, anxious, or experience
drastic mood changes. Although there is no
definitive cure yet, treatments
aim to slow the progression
of the disease and manage
symptoms. Activities like cognitive stimulation,
including memory games or puzzles,
help keep the brain active. Additionally,
listening to music and looking at photos
helps awaken memories and emotions.